# Dogspipeline DBT Project

## Project Overview

The Dogspipeline DBT project transforms raw generated data into clean, structured, and aggregated data for analytics purposes. This project focuses on generating insights related to vet and store, including owners, dogs, orders, products, transactions, veterinarians, appointments, and more.

### Key Features

1. **Source Freshness Testing**: Ensure that the data being transformed is recent and relevant.

2. **Data Integrity**: Implement unique and not-null tests on key columns to maintain data quality.

3. **Surrogate Key Construction**: Build surrogate keys for data integrity and effective database management.

4. **Data Transformation**: Convert raw data into a suitable format for analysis.

## Project Structure

The project is organized into models grouped under staging, intermediate, and marts folders.

- **Staging**: Contains the source data models with simple transformation.

- **Intermediate**: Includes models like inter_owner, inter_dog, inter_order, inter_product, inter_transaction, inter_veterinarian, and inter_appointment. These models perform transformations to create intermediate tables.

- **Marts**: Contains data marts like dim_owners, dim_dogs, dim_orders, dim_products, dim_transactions, dim_veterinarians, and dim_appointments. These models prepare the final analytical tables.

## How to Run

1. Install DBT and configure the profile according to the settings in the project's `profiles.yml`.

2. Use the DBT CLI to run the project:

    ```bash
    dbt run
    ```

This command will execute the project and create the models defined in the SQL files.

## Source Data

The project sources data related to dogs, owners, orders, products, transactions, veterinarians, and appointments. The data is generated by python script and serves as the foundation for analytics.

## Testing

Data integrity and consistency are ensured by implementing DBT tests on the source and transformed data. Unique and not-null tests are performed on key columns to maintain data quality.

### Resources:
- Learn more about dbt [in the docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](https://community.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices
